Adding extra polish.
In this video, we'll cover what is Polish and what features are best left to the end of development.
We'll add some explosion animations, physics, effectors and sounds for the explosions into our game
as well.
So what is Polish?
Polish is the last steps of game play, typically before a big milestone or even before shipping.
When you spend your time and resources on making small differences to the graphics, the visuals, the
gameplay, things that take the game from being good to being great.
In our game, the task breakdown for us is we're going to add some explosions when the crates disappear.
Currently, when crates disappear is both a pretty big part of the gameplay and as well as it's not
really that dramatic.
So if we add some explosions, it helps to celebrate and add a bit of drama to that moment.
We'll add in explosion animation.
We'll use an effector to DX so that objects near the explosion get moved just a little bit and then
we'll add a sound manager because the sound has been missing from our gameplay so far and we'll look
at key events in the gameplay that need a little extra attention.
We'll open up section five Video five Upset Ducks five for our project.
All right, let's jump inside Unity here and open up our Upset Dux five.
We'll give it a play.
We'll notice a few different things that we've polished up.
Number one, whenever I restart the scene here by using the space bar, we can see that the asteroid
fades in from a zero scale to a one scale with a nice little bounce.
It's a little effect, but it's pretty cheap to add and it gives a little visual appeal.
Also, when I shoot here, you'll see an explosion.
So the sound effect works really well.
The explosion makes it a lot more exciting when a crate is disappearing.
And also we get a explosion physics force.
So let's see how that stuff set up.
First, let's take a look at that tween.
So in the asteroid.
Inside of its start.
I do programmatic animation scaling from 0 to 1.
It's easy to add works using a free library that's called do tween.
And it's really fun to have these kind of effects added in throughout the game.
So that's first.
Then back in the game here, let's take a look at how the sounds are working.
So inside the environment in this scene, we've got a sound manager added.
And what I do is I cue up the sounds that I want.
These are WAV files or MP threes that are added to the project and then I'm able to call them by passing
in the index.
Play zero, play one, play four, and I play the corresponding sound.
So let's see where in our duck game we call that.
So down here, when I destroy the crate, what happens is I first play that sound.
You can see the syntax is really easy.
Then I create the explosion.
Creating the explosion just instantiates a prefab.
We've done that before for the asteroid, for example.
And then down here I remove the explosion after a few seconds.
So the explosion is up for maybe a half a second.
You could tweak that and have it stick around a little more, depending on how much visual impact you
want to have there.
And lastly, let's take a look at the explosion itself.
So here's the prefab.
Is what it looks like.
And we can see we've got a circle collider here and it's this size collider that's going to have a physics
force applied.
So it's this point effector that we've added that's going to have a force magnitude of five.
So you can see this is the magnitude of the force that's going to be applied positive is in an outward
direction.
So this explosion is going to push the boxes out a little bit.
So that's the setup for the Polish.
And I think the game looks really great after these five videos.
As a bonus assignment, you can add your own polish to this project.
You can add more programmatic tuning to have different effects in there.
You can have more sound effects and obstacles, larger levels.
With a scrolling camera or multiple levels, you could have different types of asteroids so that you
could shoot maybe ones that explode themselves or different types of upset ducks.
Some that are smarter.
They can move out of the way, some that have more power, more defense, some that move and make them
more difficult to hit.
In the next section, we'll look at creating a Marble Madness clone three D game.